wow maraz it thank you for joining me oh
thank you for having me it's such a
great pleasure you know you're uh we've
been KNN each other enough for a while
and we're getting to know each other
better every day um I'm really excited
to di to dive deep with you into many
different topics from your background to
cyber security to what you've been doing
since the telecommunication space and
one of the Pioneers here in the e in the
Israel ecosystem and then the US and as
an entrepreneurs a manager all the way
to how we see the future and sounds
great looking forward to it so are you
an entrepreneur are you a a an an
executive a
manager so it's amazing you know you H
straight on uh asking probably the most
difficult question for me because
everybody says I'm an I'm in I am an
entrepreneur and the only person that
says I'm not an entrepreneur is me
because I think that what I bring is
leadership and management is the how to
um I don't think that God really gave me
the present
of Reinventing the future but the
present I got is when somebody comes
with a great idea how to reinvent the
future ER I have an ability to help that
person to make it happen so it's funny
you know I've done five companies so far
none of of them were companies that I
came with an
idea and all those companies none of
them actually all those companies were
companies where I came because somebody
invited me and then helped to scale up
the company grow it um so maybe I'm any
way maybe I'm entrepreneur because when
I see a great idea technology something
that is is has the potential to change
the world I can see how it might
happen uh but uh I'm not the one that
will come with a great idea and
I will be more the one that will take a
great idea and make it a reality so so
you treat that as a as a present that
you got it's a you're you're looking at
it as sort of that you have a that you
you're looking at what are your
superpowers what are you better at what
are you wor I'm sure you you have
Amazing Ideas we talk about ideas all
the time and you have fantastic ideas
yet you make the distinction that when
it comes to the companies you've you've
built and have grown the idea didn't
necessarily come from you absolutely
absolutely the idea usually do doesn't
come from me I have a theory I don't
know if it's the right Theory but uh if
you really want to be creative you
should be free from the hustles of how
to make it happen because once you say
okay what do I need to do to make it
happen it's immediately limits your um
sort of view you know there's like a
rule number one of brainstorming is
let's throw all the ideas even the ideas
that are totally impossible and my motto
is making the impossible possible which
by by definition will not allow allow me
to come with the greatest craziest ideas
the good news is that my my gift is
meeting great people working with great
people that came with great ideas and
then together in one capacity or another
we make this ideas become a reality and
when it becomes a reality that's the
that's the amazing thing but but what
goes through your mind then so you have
your you know you meet some people and
and you you see a great idea you perhaps
see a great team that's coming there H
how do you decide for yourself whether
you're going to devote the next I don't
know 5 10 years to this idea because
you've done it multiple times now so
there must be some pattern that goes
through that that helps you make that
decision yeah absolutely and you know I
thought about it so you know I had a a
privilege uh to I spent six and a half
years in the seven and a half years in
the Israel air force and I had privilege
to be the one that sort of brought that
time it was called
daret uh to Israel and they saw that
this technology that became an
internet ER was something that was truly
exciting you know it erased
distances and um so I really felt that
it should be something that the world
will accept and then when internet
started to be a
reality or almost a reality I told
myself look this technology is totally B
bypassing the communication obstacles
this technology is something that is
extremely powerful this technology has
been proven in
the in the world of Defense because for
people remember how internet started
long long time ago it was developed as a
fa safe solution to make military
defense communication so I said one way
or another the world needs it it's
proven so it should become a
reality that time was uh young stupid so
I was lucky CU it did become a reality
and then obviously my uh companies that
I build then uh were based on the fact
that I could see a technology that was
proven uh if it's in defense world is
great but if not in other places that's
solving a really painful problem so yes
indeed I sort of developed a a process a
mental Pro process how to find out if
the technology is interesting if it's
breakthrough if the world really needs
it and if it's feasible and so far uh
thank god it works uh well for for me so
so take me back to those early days of
of the internet right daret is coming
you're spending seven and a half years
in the Israel Air Force what's happening
what is the situation like you're seeing
a technology that seems to come from
from the military perspective with
incentives for military operations but
you're saying well this is actually a
reality that everybody needs right what
did you what would you experience and
what did you see for the future so I see
this amazing technology that allows you
to to be in one place and allow things
happened in other place uh you know if
the story of internet is true it was
basically developed to allow you know
somebody in the White House to press a
red button and then make sure that the
communication will get to the necessary
place and it will be safe Etc today it's
obvious but that time it was like a
genius idea so if we'll make you know
not a direct connection but we'll make
like two
connections
ER and that will be fail safe it will
work anyway I became excited like it's
an idea it's like this is a real scale
you know we are in Israel a very remote
country suddenly you press a button and
something happens in the other side of
the ocean was very exciting of course
there were many other Technologies and
then I when I finished the
military um I start working with
companies like Intel and Microsoft
Etc uh and I see that everybody's
talking about the fact that we need a
new way of
communication and and
um I remember a person approaching me
and saying like we invested the money in
what we call internet service provider
we want to bring internet to Israel it
doesn't really work can you help us
and and that time I work with Microsoft
basically uh to show that Microsoft is
safer than that time was something that
was called Linux un
when it comes to
communication and so I say okay let's
try I start to work with that company
and suddenly everything is working and
people like it and then I discuss it
with um my mentor Le zalo build elbit
Etc you know I was his customer and he
tells me look you know my daughter is
doing the
same and then we merg the companies and
eventually that's how net vision
ER
starts since then Ru alone she was the
real founder she was the real Vision she
is the real Visionary and she is my best
friend and my mentor on how to be a
leader and bringing soft leadership
skills what was what was about her
leadership that that really inspired
you you know it will be politically
incorrect to call it sort of a female
leadership style but I love it I think
that women much better uh leaders than
men I have three daughters
and today I think it's a bone tone but
this was a compassionate leadership it
was a leadership of understanding it was
leadership of leadership of enrolling
people to do something versus forcing
them to do something and you know for me
coming that time from the military um it
was a different leadership style and I
fell in love with this leadership she
became the first lady of the internet uh
here in Israel you know the company
became the largest by
far was really good success it's still
exist now the name is celcom I did
through a few mergers and reverse merges
Etc but it was amazing you know I'm not
sure that all the people who watch this
podcast will get it but Israelis
couldn't even pronounce internet they
used to say entertain which in Hebrew
sounds much better it's like give me
internet Tenn is give me it was so funny
and people told me it will never work
work you know it's crazy some people
told me nobody will need it other people
told me people will need it so much that
the infrastructure will just collapse ER
which for me by the way us today I know
is a symbol of something that will
become a reality and will become
successful and so yeah so we're building
this company what is the symbol for for
what what is the sort of the trigger
that that leads you to believe that
something will become a reality when
people say we desperately need it but it
will never work because it will just not
keep up to the load uh this is the first
indicator and the second indicator when
people say look it's so crazy that it
will never work and nobody will use it
uh think about AI today now it's easy
but uh and I'm sort of jumping you know
from one place to another uh but 10
years ago when I joined professor kman
professor
RB to do the people said AI will never
be able to replace human beings nobody
will be as smart as human beings so that
was like 50% of the people and another
50% three years ago that's what people
said three years ago exactly and then
the other 50% said look yeah I will be
so powerful this the the you know the
singularity moment will come so fast
that will totally ruin the totally ruin
the the humanity that we hear quite
often today absolutely and we discuss it
we have I would love to to give you my
point of view but it happens all the
time after um after n Vision I joined
Delta 3 this is the company that brought
voice over IP I think it was the first
publicly traded voiceover I company with
the IPO was in NASDAQ and I remember
when we were
trying ER our Solutions we were sitting
in the airport I did it with noan bin
who later uh sold um ways to Google and
I remember I was sitting in the airport
talking to a computer basically
communicating with each other bypassing
in you know the telecommunication
networks and people told us look are you
crazy like nobody will talk to a
computer uh it will never happen think
about zoom and all those Technologies
we're using
currently um and so you know I found
that really cool
Technologies when you catch them at the
right phase and they become reality it's
a really really nice run now I Tred not
to be on the bleeding edge so I try to
to not touch those Technologies when
they're too early but definitely to be
on the Leading Edge because you have an
ad then you have an advantage of sort
of uh early mover and it reminds me a
little bit of the the the the phase in
which Tay exists in right I mean I'm
looking at that it's 10 years old right
yeah so I'm looking at you know you know
2014 and I'm looking at where AI was I
was just starting to look into AI myself
I was just finishing my you know my my
12 years of initial studies and before
the military and and and banking systems
were were definitely starting to become
digital you know you were starting to do
more and more operations digitally you
know this is almost a decade after the
first you know smartphones coming out
and and you sort of have this
realization perhaps not the original
Vision but you come in to to lead the
company looking at how do you use
leading technology to be able to do
anomaly detection on on money laundering
right and know I'm almost looking at
where we're at today where you know many
of the parts of AI are are starting to
get commoditized but over these 10 years
it sounds like there was a pretty
significant run with a Leading Edge
technology that wasn't very clear
absolutely and I wish you know it would
be a straight it would be a straight
line and uh easy and clear cut ER but it
never especially when you take really
disruptive Technologies it's never a
straight line it's never easy uh net
Vision was on the on the verge of
bankruptcy as many other companies and I
haven't mentioned few other companies
that they build uh like Sky Vision when
we brought internet
connectivity to 50 over 50 countries in
Africa in the Middle East Etc uh so let
me quickly sort of talk about the
process that brought me to the because
it's interesting so I took a company it
was a defense company uh intelligence
company um and uh working with the sort
of the best um
intelligence agencies in the
world and the idea was to
help
um intelligence agencies H secret
Services Etc to catch Bad Guys by
analyzing the data that they
connect and it was a turnaround when I
came the company was uh losing money and
was not growing very fast and after a
year it became a very nice success and I
remember I met with heads of different
intelligence a intelligence agencies and
they all told me look it was the The
Challenge was used or the challenge used
to be how we collect the data it's not
the real challenge anymore because
there's so much data there is it used to
be phone calls we just had to collect
some phone calls some you know camera
footages Etc now we have Facebook and
WhatsApp and Signal
Etc and we and the GPS and the BT CS
which is uh base station cell base
station Etc we need something that will
help us to analyze the data and we just
don't have enough
people and uh we need a solution and I
found that selling Hardware with
Hardware with 30% gross margin is not a
very interesting business but selling
algorithms with 98% gross margin is a
much more interesting business and it's
much more powerful so when did when did
you discover that when it was about 13
years ago 20 years ago and then
basically we switched the company which
was very easy because this company had
amazing amazing people who developed
this type of algorithms and were
underappreciated so suddenly we're
selling those solutions that allow
governments to very quickly identify bad
guys uh catch them and we sell the
company um and then I I tell myself look
this thing I'm not sure that we what it
was even called AI as we know it today
this thing is the future when machines
will be able to think like human beings
or human analysts this is probably
become in the future so I started
actively look for Solutions I
spend days weeks in universities
speaking with various professors really
had a feeling because everybody told me
look this type of Technology it's true
that intelligence forces lose it use it
sorry but they all take it from the
universities and I was very very
privileged to meet Professor RB from Tel
Aviv University ex Columbia University
introduce me to n xib introduced me to
Professor kman from y University and
they were working on technologies that
to allow ER what today everybody
understands and calls llm but basically
to build systems that will allow
machines to teach themselves you know I
don't want to bore our viewers but some
people call it unsupervised machine
learning yeah and so you you actually
came to to these two professors and you
said listen I have this experience where
I'm I have I've built solutions to catch
bad guys and the more time I spend on it
I realize that that software rather than
Hardware is actually the key to
unlocking a lot of these insights and
what you know what are you working on
that could fit what you know better
solutions for this was that sort of the
dynamic that was the dynamic yeah in
this case they'll told me look we
actually build a company and you know we
developed this technology to analyze uh
Medical Data uh to help uh cure cancer
Etc with which obviously you know it's a
totally different path it was very
difficult and then they say maybe we
should use it you know for to to to
identify cyber security attacks on
critical infrastructure Etc I became
intrigued and uh you know they were
looking for a a founding CEO I was
looking for Founders you remember I
don't invent ideas by myself I just find
great people with great ideas so I
joined them and it was an amazing
amazing run by the way like any new
technology the the
the the
the
chase or the work to find the right
product Market fit wasn't easy you know
when you have amazing technology
especially if the technology can do
everything and AI something that can do
everything um forces you to really find
what's your focus what's your like
what's your uh bullly what's your sweet
spot because there's a startup you canot
do everything and uh and I think
everybody needs to realize that maybe
the first approach will be not
necessarily the most effective one for
for example in
theay
initially when I've met these professors
I said like I need to do a validation is
it true technology it sounds too good to
be true 2013 2014 is exactly the year
that open AI was established we didn't
know it that time now we know like
nobody knew open AI was established and
and everybody thought that te technology
is crazy so I decided to ask people that
I know and um and we also came with an
idea that maybe we can identify cyber
security threats in areas that it's
impossible to use Solutions like
firewalls Etc so I was very lucky to
have the CIS of General Electric being
my friend and and I said like you know
in General Electric you have the largest
number of Nobel lates you have amazing
research Department can you tell me if
you heard about about this technology of
these professors and he told me look
Mark not only we heard about them we
should come
and you know it was somewhere in
Virginia we couldn't find flights so it
took like three flights to get there
sitting at the at the rearest seats in
the airplane getting there having 15
minutes
meeting and after that meeting G said
that they will invest significant amount
of money in the company and the use case
today it's not secret was very
interesting so some people probably
still remember stet which is allegedly
according to the foreign presses you
know we always have to say was a virus
that
affected allegedly uh centrifuges um
that were en reaching uranium the speed
of the centrifuges doing it very small
so the speed went up the centrifuges
didn't work but the command and control
center still showed the same information
it's like putting you know um it's like
ocean 11 it's like putting you know
Steels picture in front of the camera
and then rubbing the vault
um and this is impossible to identify
using normal Security Solutions because
firewalls will look for Network traffic
here we don't see any change in network
traffic what you see is a change of
speed velocity temperature Etc
and and of course the goal wasn't to
help Iranians to protect themselves and
the goal was to help companies like
aramco that were later attacked uh
by systems that uh were based on the
technology of uh stack net and they were
G customers was very successful and then
J Electric introduced us to Singapore
Airlines because you know what G does is
Big engines airlin agents and Singapore
Airlines used this check this technology
it was very successful as well and
that's where the point of truth comes
because you see that the technology is
amazing it really helps to solve the
problems but one thing is missing
how severe is the real problem in the
real world now how many nuclear
facilities Michael you heard about being
hacked maybe one right yeah how many
airplanes really were affected by cyber
security
attacks zero which is good so we have an
amazing technology there'll be no off
great investors great customers that is
oneof exactly and then we had to go
through a very tedious
process sometimes even painful process
because when especially the founders
when you know they build the company
they have a certain vision and although
the technology is the best in class the
vision of who we're going to serve is
not necessarily what they fail is the
right direction but luckily for me you
know they trusted me it's a great team
we found that actually protecting
financial institutions and helping them
to catch bad guys was the right solution
we're talking about it it's a huge shift
yes right it's a huge shift how talk to
me about it so you're you're studing
with the founders they have a certain
Vision part of it is also you know
coming part of what I wanted to touch on
Al I'm very curious you know there's a
part of coming up with the idea that is
a big driver for entrepreneurs right I
mean you know I'm looking at at
different entrepreneurs who are founders
of different companies sometimes it's
it's a problem that they really care
about that's coming from within some
some some some history in their life
that leads them to this problem and So
that obviously has an impact on the
customers you want to serve which
problem you want to solve and not just
the technology that you're building how
did you make that transition
successfully because over obviously
looking backwards it was a you know it
was a big success and still is but how
how did it happen in real time it's a
it's a actually it's a it's a very good
observation because most of the people
think that what you should do is you
know to map all the various Industries
to put the right parameters to check and
to do some Excel analysis Excel file
analysis and find what's the right
what's the right solution and by the way
it's true you need to do this exercise
but it starts with you looking at
yourself and you're absolutely right uh
this is not an Excel file this is
Founders that came with a vision and
this is me coming with a vision so first
we should be all uh honest with
ourselves and saying look maybe we made
a mistake maybe there is something maybe
the world has changed you know this book
who Moved My Cheese maybe the cheese has
moved uh so it starts with looking
inside sansu you know one of those great
strategies that wrote The Art of War mhm
M he said you know when you don't know
yourself in your enemy you will
definitely lose when you only know your
enemy but don't know yourself you might
might not lose but only when you know
yourself and the enemy you will win so
looking at yourself was extremely
important or at ourselves so first we
realize that and the question asked is
what's our passion like what what's the
why why we are here are we here to prove
that we can protect nuclear facilities
or what or are we here because we want
to unleash the power of AI to make a
world a better place and only when we
understood that our goal is you know to
solve Global problems that are huge
problems uh using Ai and to do it in a
way that is impossible to do just with
people then we could start the work of
identifying uh what's the solution so
obviously we didn't want to look at
small Solutions small problems we said
okay so what are the big problems and
then it was different then it was like
nuclear facilities was one ER
operational efficiency was second ER can
we do what they call manufacturing 4.0
was another one uh healthc care was
another one and one of them was money
laundering uh and we did analysis and
then of course it comes to the right
analysis as well so you know the Y is
Extreme important you can't start
without it but once you have an answer
to why you do it you need to find the
answer of to the how we do it and uh
what's the right thing we need to do and
obviously we found that um the world of
financial transactions is totally
changing you know banks used to be with
physical branches you used to come there
used to fill those forms show your real
IDE and then open an account and uh it's
not that it was impossible to create
10,000 fake accounts but you had to find
10,000 people to create 10,000 fake
IDs it was a hustle it wasn't easy and
now when Banks became digital some of
them without branches there are finex
and everything and done remotely we
understood that the world is changing
suddenly if you want to create 10,000
fake accounts and then each account will
make you know millions of fake
transactions suddenly you can do it with
the Press of a button so that's how we
basically felt that financial
institutions is the right area for us we
also found that you know being a startup
you also want to make sure that it's not
an NGO or not sorry it's not a nonprofit
so you need to make money you need to
make sure that you uh provide nice
return investment for your investors so
we said look where is the money who can
pay us and obviously Banks is the
right was the right direction I remember
I came to J Electric to the board member
and I said look you know we sort of
think that we should move from
manufacturing to financial institutions
will you support me he said definitely I
will support you mark You're making the
right decision you need to do what's
right for the company we as investors
are very happy with your decision
although obviously we love your
technology and we would love to use it
for GE but we totally understand and I
remember somebody asked him like why do
you support Mark in his decision to move
from GE to financial institutions and he
said like in this famous movie about the
gangsters you know when ask like why do
rob banks and the answer was because
that's where the money is so I remember
he's telling I support mark because
financial institutions is that's where
the money is did you have a background
in financial institutions before that
zero zero
zero in fintech and cyber security for
banks I understood how money is moving
because I really understood
telecommunication and it's very similar
obviously cyber security is similar
everywhere I definitely understood the
financial institutions point of view on
cyber security I would say maybe
differently because I started as a
hacker I definitely understood the
potential financial institutions for bad
for what they call blackhead hackers
because at the end of the day you can
hack systems just for a pleasure of
being a hacker or you can hack the
systems to steal some money so I could
definitely understand that point of view
but I was never a banker didn't
understand how banking systems work
what's the ecosystem system which is
exciting every company I move to a
different area I love it I love it at
the end of the day my strong belief is
that human beings are human beings they
build companies they have the same
processes obviously we had to replace
almost the entire sort of sales uh Team
of the company because people that speak
with financial institutions speak
different language and but I love it
it's part of the challenge it almost
sounds like you you get almost excited
by this idea that there's now a shift
that needs to happen and now and it
looks nearly impossible and I guess many
many entrepreneurs would look at it and
say oh wow that's going to be that's
terrifying it's scary it's going to be
so hard you look at it and say let's get
let's do it let's let's let's get
excited about yeah you know it's so
funny when they tell people you know
shift
happens they tell me why you smile
like shift happens shift happens yeah I
love it I'm adopting
that so so what were the industries that
you moved from so walk me through these
different pillars so we had you know we
had the telecommunication piece right at
the beginning right which it came out of
darpet and your experience in the IDF
where the last the last uh decade was
all about you know money laundering Ai
and financial institutions walk me
through these different pillars yeah so
um you know first I started er um um
being a hacker I loved it and the idea
was to H to
crack you know to understand how this
systems work I never I was never
interested in hacking you know to
achieve financial gain ER it was mainly
to understand you know how we can crack
those
systems and and of course we'll not
about talk about the world of Defense
but obviously um right um You need to
understand how systems work and and then
um when I H join net Vision I'm excited
about about this idea of
telecommunication I'm also excited about
the challenges te telecommunication
creates
so what really like really makes me
excited is to understand that the world
is changing to understand the
opportunities and understand the threats
so I'm building the internet you know
nobody in in
Israel had internet before and then we
Face the challenges so first challenge
was of course legislation there were
incumbents it was illegal to run to do
internet in Israel had to understand how
to work with the government to do the
legislation by the way since then I'm
I'm I'm I'm a big fan of doing the right
legislation so I participated in you
know
legalizing cyber security both defensive
and offensive now I'm really excited
about regulation in the world of AI we
can talk about it but anyway I
understand that there is a huge
opportunities but they're also threats
I'm a hacker H by the way if people will
Google the internet I think one of the
first vulnerabilities
in
Microsoft Explorer Windows 95 look
how
wow published is something that I was
one of the um authors of finders wow
which was really really cool that time
Microsoft will P you some money if you
found something really cool and then I
find myself building the um uh even
before checkpoint the first firewall of
the Israeli National Bank we call it
gatekeeper Etc so I immediately
understand understand that there are two
directions one is cyber security and one
is the growth of the internet and many
cyber security companies that are now in
Israel grew out of net Vision cyber
security department and we did it just
to help our customers
become more safe and then of course they
discover the world of um e-commerce
which becomes really exciting because
how do you take business models that
were proven in the real world and move
them to the internet I remember people
tell told me that it's a new economy and
you know being a kid I said no it's
actually not in new economy if you have
a if you have a a lousy business model
in the real world you can't just move to
the internet make it a great business
model you need a business model uh and
it's cool because suddenly you
understand that the virtual world and
digital world and the real world are
sort of connected and it's the same and
mean in terms of consumer beh behavior
is the same way people consumer Behavior
ER business practices you know you can't
lose like you need to make money and if
you go to the internet you still need to
make money right and you can find
different ways you you can you can
Finance Yourself by creating eyeballs
you can Finance Yourself by doing sort
of a cross
financing you can build Google and give
email for free but then you get revenues
from advertising Etc so it was really
really cool and then it's growing and
then suddenly there is a realization
that internet is not just for browsing
it's actually can replace existing tele
communication systems like voiceover AP
so suddenly we build this company called
Delta 3 with millions of millions of
consumers and you can see real impact
that you make on the world like when we
build internet obviously you can see
like that people suddenly can
communicate with each other you can
communicate with your doctor and get
information very fast and then we do
voice R and suddenly you see a person
somewhere
in Pakistan that would like to make a
phone call to his beloved and the cost
is $8 which is huge amount in Pakistan
suddenly they can do it for like half a
dollar which was
extremely low price and then um you know
and then you see that you can move video
over internet and then you can then
suddenly we realize that people can feel
close to each other and then 911 happens
and
uh most of the tel communication cables
uh were under the uh World Trade Center
so suddenly the uh city of New York is
disconnected from the telecommunication
system but really yeah and I was I
wasn't aware that happened yeah and
Delta 3 headquarters were in New York
and 75 Broad Street and internet went
through some other place called 60
Hudson Street different type of cables
and uh suddenly we see that we can allow
people in Manhattan to commun to to sort
of communicate with the Beloved ones all
around the world and see if everything
is okay tell them ask them you know a
report unfortunately sometimes bad news
as well uh so you see a real
impact and then of course
telecommunication Market collapsed and
one of the companies that I was helping
again great Founders that came with a
great idea let's use Satellite
Communication Etc told me luk Mark you
should join us to help us and then it's
a totally different business I've never
seen a satellite in my life they came
with all those terms that today I know
how to pronounce like eirp Etc trust me
nobody
knows and suddenly I try to try to
understand like what's the business
model behind satellite communication and
then you realize that it's basically a
real estate business you have 360
parking places all around the world and
then you need to put satellites in those
places if you don't do it and keep it
empty then after 3 years uh suddenly it
itu or
whatever the entity will take it back
suddenly you discover there is a there
is a thing that called extra terrestrial
law so you need to understand the
legislation of extr terrestrial law and
then of course we made a mistake because
we started to work very hard in Eastern
Europe and then we realized that the
real Market is in Africa I've never been
to Africa and they need to go there and
eventually it became a great success and
suddenly you discover maybe one story
that unless you have a question that I
can tell you oh please so
suddenly and you
know it's a very profitable business
eventually because there's in no
internet connectivity and suddenly you
do something that did not happen before
it's totally disruptive you bypass Telos
you bypass you know unreasonable prices
that they charge and suddenly you know
using a satellite you can lend your
internet anywhere in Africa and in the
Middle East and also are extremely cheap
because you know 2000 the world
collapsed telecommunication Investments
were
overhyped and I remember I came to um
South
Africa and uh we're meeting customers
and some of them comes and gives me this
model um of a
village of an African village a clay
model and ask him like what's that you
know
and he says look I want to tell you a
story so we are your customers and his
and his wife were very senior uh she was
a very senior malaria researcher in
Europe and they made quite a large of
amount of money by investing in various
businesses they didn't have any CH any
kids and I said look we build this place
in Africa that treats malaria for kids
now I don't know if you know but malaria
is one of those diseases that
underserved because it's mainly in
Africa so there was not enough money and
unfortunately pharmaceutical companies
will not invest a lot of money to create
Cur Cur it's curable but market failure
exactly it's market failure so they said
look we want to do it and they build
this beautiful Village
in not far away from South Africa and
mothers from all all around Africa
brought their kids to this place uh
sometimes it's it meant um you know
traveling weeks over weeks and then they
basically will take take a blood sample
of the kid uh send it to World Health
Organization once every two weeks there
will be a plane that will land and
collect all the samples and then two
weeks later they will get an
answer and some kids could survive it
some kids not because there are I'm not
I'm not a doctor but probably there are
different types of malaria and they said
look I just wanted to tell you that you
gave us this internet connectivity we
got a donation which is basically a
machine that allows us to do blood
samples on the Fly converted to Digital
Data we send it to W Health Organization
and we get answers within 24 hours so
the kids whose life you
saved prepare this model for you and
then he gave me some pictures of the
kids I still cherish it I can show in my
plan and then suddenly you understand
that those cool Technologies really make
a world a better place and I always tell
this story and and it's that's where I
understood that you know with this great
power of identifying new technologies
and uh making investors very happy you
also have great responsibility which is
to make sure that those Technologies
serve people and make their lives better
I mean it's it all comes back to
communication it all comes back to right
I mean it sounds like the different
things you've you've been a part of and
what you're you're touching on is is
disability to to communicate better to
communicate more effectively yeah it's
communication but I would say if it's
maybe more important than that it was it
was all about
data um you know basically what happened
here communication is just a tool but
what happened here is that they could
send medical data to World Health
Organization and get data back that will
tell them what type of cure should be
use it took me time to understand that
what I thought is telecommunication
basically not my passion my passion is
is data is access to data is
democratization of data for example one
of the things that happened is that we
connected Congo to internet connectivity
and then suddenly all those people who
you know do the sort of blood diamonds
excavation Etc suddenly they understood
the value of the stones they're finding
suddenly people in places like Nigeria
Gaza
Ghana Kenya Tanzania understood what
should be the real prices of rice that
they buying or selling yeah so bringing
data and by the way even in a vision
what makes me exciting is that suddenly
people in Israel could get access to all
the data that is in New York so if you
ask me one thing what's common to
everything we do and by the way
everything that Clarity does or any
other company it's allow people to
analyze data to get access to data to
get insights and wisdom right and to use
the data for the benefits I mean it
almost feels like we were in this phase
in in society now in humanity really
where by unlocking the layers of
communication from an infrastructure
level we've now unlocked the
dissemination of information and data
but now we've realized wow we have so
much of this data that now we're lacking
the tools or we we have an opportunity
to analyze it in much more meaningful
ways than we have exactly but I think
we're moving from a sort of information
revolution or data Revolution to a a to
a wisdom Revolution wisdom Revolution to
you know to the real insights Revolution
right I mean I think that and that's
practically what you know your vision
with with the founders of th Ray right
when it comes to money laundering you
know identifying traces of where perhaps
human trafficking is taking place and
and being able to create this
unsupervised learning mechanism which
almost I I remember you said in in one
of your talks is almost is meant to
mimic the the subconscious part part of
of the human brain right you have the
frontal cortex but then you have the
subconscious where what you said was
that that's where the magic happens and
you're it's great that you remember it
and you've seen those thetics talks yeah
so now everybody understands that there
is this thing that they called the and
it's working of course four or five
years ago and by the way the fact that
you identified it 10 years ago it's
amazing because most of the people just
couldn't believe that it might happen Lu
I was born to the right to the right to
the right family I guess it was a uh
yeah yeah you know uh those were my
Shabbat dinners somebody told me that uh
luck is when um when preparedness met
when um when opportunity meets Readiness
so you know luck is when opportunity
meets Readiness yeah so maybe you will
ready because you were born as you said
to the right family but you were also
open enough to uh to um choose the
unexpected opportunities because I'm
sure that many people are born in the
right place but they just miss
opportunities because they're not open
enough to to to get it and embrace it h
but it was difficult it was difficult
and like how to explain people um
something that seems like an intuition
right and then of course it's if you
think about what AI is doing and we can
again jump from one press to another
um llm is basically computers teaching
themselves by the way in the we did
something we called LTM which is large
transaction model but it's the same by
the way people forget that when you send
a kid to teach himself or herself it's
not good enough you always need to give
some sort of external
influence uh you know that what do what
do you mean by that okay so this is cool
so people watching this podcast yeah now
I'm not I will not look at the camera as
I usually do when I get a sort of a TV
show but I ask our listeners ask
yourself now chat GPT do you know what p
means in chat GPT I will not ask you
this question everybody knows that g is
generative right many people who are
sort of close to mathematics know that
the GPT like t means Transformer but
when you ask people and go like go ask
people in your company what p means
99.9% of the people will not remember
what does it mean so people who listen
to us ask yourself do you remember what
p is people would say progressive
performance whatever but it's not it's
totally counterintuitive so so GPT is
generative pre-trained Transformer and
the idea is that you need to train AI
you need human
beings and then later machines to train
AI to to to sort of you know Ste to the
right direction now it's like a kid
you're absolutely right it's like un
like unconscious part of our brain when
you send a kid to a street and the kid
teaches itself yes he or she can become
a great leader but she can also become a
[Music]
criminal an addict that's why we need
great education that's what we need
parents and
teachers and Educators to help our kids
to become what they really have the
potential to become that's why AI is not
good enough that's why what they call
unsupervised machine learning which is
system that teaches themselves still
need somebody that will pre-train them
and this is the magic so so we're going
to talk a lot about the the future of AI
and what we're heading to um and there's
a lot to unpack there but before we get
there I'm I'm curious you know you have
you have three daughters you're family
you're family man you love life I love
life you love life you love your family
love your
friends um every time I see you I I the
energy that you exude is that of very
much communal the your communication is
very much is very human is very human so
I'm sure that you've given a ton of
thoughts to how do you raise your kids
and what you teach them and what type of
world you want them to see through their
own eyes because like you said you you
know it it there is the information but
then it's how do you analyze it and I I
constantly think to myself is you know
you can we can have the same situation
happen to us but we will perceive it in
totally different ways based on the
history we have based on the way we see
the world
or what what things go through your mind
as you recall you know raising your kids
or what were really important things to
you that they take with
them so I will start with at the
beginning when I first discovered that
my wife is pregnant I was hysterical uh
I tried to prepare myself so I was
looking for a manual and then I found
that when you get a kid when you get a a
new
kid nature doesn't give you a user
manual which is crazy like you know in
our world you're in mind we have this
term I hope it's okay for this podcast
which called which is called rtfm read
the manual and suddenly I see kids
coming without the manual so I started
like read all those books Etc and then
you discover that every kid is different
uh so I thought like what's the one or
two things that I want them to take and
if you ask all my daughters they will
tell you that there are two slogans that
are sort of in our family and then
recently we brought a a third one so
first one is everything is
possible oh there's no such thing as
impossible as long as you work hard and
you really willing to put the right
efforts to make it happen and the second
one never give up never ever give up
like western church never give up never
ever give up never give up never ever
give up this is something that they will
tell you and they will tell you about
their grand grandmother who died at age
of 103 that she was German and then she
was in ltia and then she was sent by
Russians to Siberia and she survived and
you know raised her kids and uh she was
investing till the last day of her life
she was telling me like which shares to
invest and she will tell you she was one
of the strongest women I've ever have
seen
and she's a role model for my daughters
even those my little one that didn't
meet her and and she would ever always
say like never give up never ever give
up like Winston church and others and
the third one um which I recently
discover that is important as well to
sort of balance you know the ambition of
everything is possible never give up is
gratefulness is I think in all the
religions we have this idea of really
gratitude being grateful for what we
have and understanding that what we have
we have for a reason for a purpose and
we have responsibility to use it you
know to make our dreams come through and
if you're lucky enough to Mak other
dreams come through as
well what type of leader are
you there are so many you know so
many definitions of a leader the one
that I love and you're probably familiar
with it said that the true leader is the
one that creates leaders around them who
achieve ever expanding results for
themselves and others
so I believe if you ask most of the
people they will say that I really care
about the people around me and I really
care about the growth and I really want
people around me to achieve results Way
Beyond that what they think is possible
for them
um
if had a conversation with a leadership
team of the that grew with me and the
current CEO was my cro for two years and
the CFO that now is heading very large
part of the company was uh there for
seven years and when I heard that
without any intervention on my side they
produce amazing results that makes me
more happy than the amazing results I
produced before wow so that's that's the
type of a leader I believe that were you
always like that always looking at you
know did was that is that a an idea that
you had since the beginning or did you
develop that
as a result of some experiences oh I
definitely exact I was totally the
opposite I was you know the the what
they call the ginger you know red head a
teachers pet always try to be the
smartest in the room and if somebody is
smarter than me I will feel threatened
and I will fight and people I can say
that most of the kids probably hated me
in their hearts they never told
me yeah and then I've met rut Alon who
was my like first true CEO and I could
see how powerful it can be to empower
others wow how much better results you
can achieve how like ego is important we
wouldn't be you know successful if we
wouldn't have ego but suddenly when you
make everybody's ego bigger than yours
suddenly the success is easier you know
I found that one basic management trick
that I
use uh which is always bring people that
are much better than me especially in
the areas that are responsible for and I
always joke that in my case and it's not
very difficult uh this is a winning
formula you bring amazing people that
are much better than you they produce
amazing results and uh that's why in all
my companies I have like or that I'm
involved I have Equity Etc because you
know it's it's it's really great I get
great pleasure and also financially it's
great because amazing leaders create
amazing companies and if I have a small
piece of that company it makes it also
financially very rewarding but uh
transition for you you're transitioning
from gingerhead smartest in the room I
can see that I can see you know you
being that way but but you're not that
way was it just seeing being empowered
by by by Ruth were there other things
that happen oh yeah no I definitely I've
done like huge amount of educations I
couldn't I could really early understand
understood that this is like an
automatic pilot that is not very
productive um you know when I was
younger like really young people used to
call
me
[Music]
a a D9 you know which is like a big
tractor that basically CS the ER I could
achieve everything I would be
unstoppable I would like break all the
barers to achieve goals and I was a doer
I was achiever I'm still but I found
that if you do it the blind way if you
do it like you know all those big uh um
cut p tractors
Etc yes you can achieve your results but
then you leave ruins behind you and I
could see it from my wife I could see it
from my kids so then I've done all those
you know all those programs like The
Landmark Education and joining YPO which
is Young president's organization and
going to ER Harvard to study how to
become a better leader it's a constant
work cuz my automatic pilot is okay
there is a problem I will
you know wear my doer achiever head I
will ruin all the barriers I will remove
all the mountings I will achieve what's
needed and I don't care like what's
going on and I have to stop myself and
say yeah no but it's a better way there
is not a forceful way there's always
like a way to empower others and I
really practice it I have to say that
when I achieve something by empowering
others I have a great pleasure when I
achieve something by sort of using my
power
the pleasure of achieving the result is
much it's nice but it's much much
less Pleasant than you know seeing other
achieving results wow no that's very
powerful because it's and and sounds
like it's something that you're you're
still practicing I still practicing
probably I will have to do it till the
last day of my life because it's not
easy no way to
rewire to just
uh uh I wish yeah you know I wish there
would be a way to re wire but I guess Uh
there's Big discussion nature versus
nurture you know is it genetic is it
education I sort of less busy with this
question I just know that I have to work
by the way it's not only you know the
leadership skills trust me if I'll stop
exercising I will start eat more you
know what will happen so yeah there are
things in life that I believe that we
need to keep
practicing uh and practicing and
practicing and U so what do you do
you're I mean this is a perhaps
something for me too you you're sitting
in a situation where something happens
shift happens H now you're at a position
where you have to H to you're you're
getting into your doer mode because
you're capable because you're smart
because you're energetic and you want to
get see things done and maybe you even
have a sense that if you just go and do
it and forcefully it'll get done faster
than if you were to now stop and what do
you do at that moment how do you how do
you catch yourself how do you stop
yourself
so maybe just one thing I do before that
moment because I know that with in that
moment I will probably not see it uh you
know there's this expression when you're
inside the sub bubble you can't see the
sub bubble
anymore um so I try to do before because
I know that at that particular point of
time I will be in my do mode I will not
see what theal will fly and you'll ex
exactly I will just and so before that I
actually enroll people that work with me
and I tell them look if you see that I'm
jumping into this sort of uh state of
mind let me know you know you know this
uh sort of expression from the world of
management what you can't measure you
can't manage so I asked them to be my
gges to tell me look Mark you know
you're getting into your I call it
automatic pilot you're getting into
automatic pilot mode stop now those
people I I need to trust them that they
will do it and they need to trust me
that although they many cases report to
me I will thank them rather than being
angry but so you have an honest
authentic conversation with them and
tell them listen this is my this is
something that I know about myself it's
not necessarily bad in fact it achieves
good results but we can achieve much
better results if if I'm aware of it
absolutely I will definitely do it and
then they will tell me look you mark you
in this situation no of course you have
a choice sometimes I say thank you for
sharing it is what it is I'm still
taking the you know the the driver seat
and I will do it and but at least I'm
it's aous it's a conscious Choice
exactly and by the way there are
sometimes surprising effects to this so
sometimes I try to be you know try to
really gather information from everybody
Etc and these people will tell me look
Mark you ask for honest opinion just
make the decision and that's it it's not
a democracy and I say thank you for
sharing that make a decision so
sometimes you know you can if you don't
have the right gauges you can move to
the Other Extreme which has been you
know extremely Democratic ask for
everybody's opinion and then make a
decision by comedy some people told me
that the camel is a horse designed by
comedi so you don't want to get to that
extreme as well that's why also creating
this partnership teamwork with the
people that work with you and they can
trust you and you can trust them is so
powerful remarkable um about tell me a
little bit about IPO YPO Landmark you
you're you're spending a lot of time
developing yourself just like this
example with the autopilot um you're
you're a busy guy you have you have a
lot of things going on but you still
find the time to to do to to do this um
this I guess self-development or or
personal professional work but it also
feels like you do it in in community
settings you're not doing it alone I do
both so I try to do it alone
unfortunately leadership is something
that you need to practice with others uh
you know you can't it's like riding a
bik bicycle you can't learn leadership
just by reading about leadership right
you need to practice it and it's much
easier to do it in some people think
they can learn but yeah no you can learn
it but then if you never practice it you
know you get all the right ideas and
then when stay on paper exactly when the
you know when the rubber hits the road
suddenly you see that it doesn't work
yeah and you need to practice you need
to make
mistakes
um you know when I did the landmark
forum ER and some people probably have
done it h it works
on it it doesn't work on your
understanding it it works on you
practicing it you know they always tell
you like do you know how to lose weight
if not I will tell you just eat less
practice more and exercise more and it
will work and how many people know know
it and or you know like you know how to
like you know that smoking is not good
for your health but the fact that you
know it doesn't help you to quit smoking
or you know that there is one this thing
that you say to your beloved ones and
they totally makes them crazy and you
still sometimes say it so there is more
sometimes sometimes knowing it is
actually defies the purpose because it
make it it gives you the the solution
that you're solving it you're tacking ex
exactly and I remember I come into this
thing and I'm very analytic so I try to
understand it and understand nothing
after two days I come to the leader and
it's called the form leader tell him
look just want me to let you know you
know I paid this money and I don't
understand what you say and uh
uh if you won't explain me that time I
was remember like gingerhead much less
pleasant person than
today uh and I said look like I really
planning like to write a letter to
landmarks I want my money back and he
said you know what let me give you a
promise first of all this is not about
understanding but I will give you a
promise you stay till the last day of
this program and you don't try to
understand it and then last day of the
program if you don't understand it I
will explain you how does it work and if
still if you are still not satisfied you
will get all the money
back what do I say and I said okay and
then eventually you've done it suddenly
at certain point of time you just get it
you get it and of course I didn't
believe it so I found like a Harvard
Business School of Management study
about this technology that explains how
it's working I became more and more
involved understood it Etc but it's
really cool because suddenly I realized
that even if I don't understand
something it might be working
um so this was like a really painful
moment for me to understand that being
the smartest in the room doesn't really
help me to create great Relationships by
the way then I found with my kids that
you know if my daughter doesn't set up
her room I can give you the best
business explanation why it's so
important I can give you the all the
planning tools how to plan you know
setting up a room and I can use my best
negotiation strategies that I learned
how to do it and then will she will tell
tell me no and she's three-year-old and
that's
it so I love it you have to love you
have to Lear different skills to work
with different people yeah and it's it's
all about people at the end it's all
about people it's all about
relationships and it's all about uh
absolutely why a phrase that I really
love that I that I keep hearing back in
the people that I work with if you want
to run fast run alone if you want to run
far run with others absolutely
absolutely much agree with you it's a
difficult concept to to really
understand to not it's easy to
understand it's a difficult concept to
actually live by when a big part of
autopilot I think for some people myself
included is to run fast Mark let's dive
to the Future you're a futurist sounds
good the future is bright
um you know looking at uh your your your
time with you know read the entrance of
the of the inter 10 and
uh and the entrance to uh to the
communication space and then the data
Revolution the wisdom Revolution and and
looking at being at the Leading Edge of
technology and figuring out how is the
world going to look later on you've had
the last you've spent the last 10 years
dealing with
AI what's really exciting to you about
where we're
headed to unlock I I think I'm really
privileged you know to be very lucky to
be um to be in this world of uh Ai and
uh at the right time in the right place
uh and by the way when today people say
yeah it's like generic it's like saying
20 years ago we'll use software or 10
years ago we use S and isn't it amazing
how fast we got to this point that
within practically two years we've
commoditized this ambiguous term which
effectively says super intelligence
absolutely insane absolutely and I think
we all know uh you know all those
statistics how much time it took us
telecommunication companies to get to uh
1 billion users and then how much time
it took Facebook to get to 1 billion
users and then how much time it took
open thei to get to one billion users
and I think that we haven't seen
it yet um so first of all about the
magnitude of the change I remember when
I was building uh the first internet
service provider in this region I really
could feel that the world of sort of an
a verge of of uh tectonic change and it
did happen think about it like Amazon
didn't exist Google didn't exist Apple
didn't exist and maybe Apple did exist
but was a small company and definitely
non Facebook Nvidia like people didn't
even think that anybody needs it and
suddenly we have this new world now
there are many many shifts like the the
the sus movement and the uh e-commerce
movement Etc but I've never felt like
I'm feeling today which is really a
tectonic change again that time I was
too young for
my my position that's why I joined YPO H
today I feel that I have a little bit
more experience but this is a tectonic
change and I think
that this change uh creates enormous
opportunities uh we started this
conversation about entrepreneurship and
I strongly believe and I think s Sam
malman said it as well uh the day
where you know one entrepreneur can
build a billion dollar company a unicorn
is not too far away and the day why when
one person can build a Deca corn company
which is $10 billion company is also not
far away and I just spent a a week in
you know this beautiful uh Castle in
France with professors from all around
the world discussing in a very intimate
setting uh the future of AI and then
somebody said you know the day where is
it true that the day where AI will be
able to
build or a virtual entrepreneur will
build a a a unicorn is not far away and
it was very interesting to ask this
question and I mean I think that what
what what he's he said in France and
what Sam had really it's it's a
depiction of the capability right that
that I mean what is a unicorn what is a
decacorn it's some some mechanism some
some technology that serves a business
need and is able to do it very
successful and it very large scale and
it's sort of closing the slop that's
very very hard to do it's very hard to
build the technology very hard to
understand the pain point to build a
business around it and the model and to
make it go around and this and and
almost to me I'm translating to saying
wow we're going to be solving a lot of
problems absolutely and you know it's
always ER solving problems and Crea
problems it's like black and white Yin
and Yen you know demons and angels it
depend from what time you from what size
do you come uh so let's quickly sort of
unravel the or uncover the the the the
history of ha and where it's going right
so you know AI as you said it's a
generic term everybody's using it I
guess it's all started with a sort of um
machines that could just follow the
rules um you know we used to call it
algorithms or even before and you just
build a software saying go left go right
and the system is doing it and then it
was let's call it like first generation
and then there was a second generation
more sophisticated models you can do
sort of what if ER analysis and if
something happens you can change your
behavior and then you do if this happen
that happens
let's call it like the second generation
and then obviously there was what we
might call today supervised machine
learning we can teach
machines and you know if you see this
picture it's a cat if you this see this
picture it's a pedestrian if you see
this picture it's a stop sign and then
obviously great companies mobile ey the
Israeli one and others and Tesla Etc
started to do what I do
and then the sort of fourth generation
if you might came which is unsupervised
machine learning basically machines can
teach
themselves um and there is a big
discussion like what will be the fifth
generation will it be machines that can
teach themselves and
create a
soul a a
subconscious um a belief an ability not
only to teach themselves but actually to
create some sort of
self-awareness uh it's a very good
question but we actually coming very
close to a place where machines can
think act and behave very similar to
human beings which creates enormous
opportunities which also creates a lot
of threats I think we should discuss as
well because there will be need for
companies that will protect the world
against those threats and Clarity is a
very good example because I think that
the threat to our
identity uh is extremely important so
maybe just touch on that one you know
that in United
States forfeiting money is a very very
bad behavior uh Secret Service that
protects the President also protects the
US currency so it just shows
how important to make sure that the
Integrity of the
money is right like it's probably the
the the the the one of the worst AFF
first just creating fake money yeah but
there are no real laws or there are but
not as
severe that deal with faking human
beings faking our identities think about
it we more care about historically which
is not true but we shouldn't be this way
but we more care about fake money than
we fake we care about fake identities
fake behaviors fake movies deep fakes
Etc so I think this is really one of the
examples of how this amazing advancement
of AI
which creates a lot of opportunities
also creates threats by the way in my
world it's again opportunities it
creates opportunities to make uh to make
it safer yeah I think that we what we
share as entrepreneurs as we see we take
threats and we translate that word
immediately to to Entre to
Opportunities yeah just to build on what
you said you know there's this beautiful
expression that some people see problem
in every opportunity mhm and we actually
see an opportunity in every problem
absolutely yeah I I I love that
distinction what what is the threat in
your eyes to to faking
identities you know it's a it's it's a
big concept what what what how how is
that going to impact us humans our our
being our our our experience in the
world so you know we we sort of
discussed about the fact that we are
social um social creatures yeah social
beings we spoke about the fact that
leadership is something that really you
can't practice without you know speaking
with other
people and I think what happens right
now that it's really affects the most
basic
um
communication detection mechanism or
communication enabling mechanisms that
we develop
ER because if you can uh create fake
people if you can create fake
voices how do you keep trust intact so
if you ask me the biggest problem which
by the way is happening anyway is the
problem of
trust there's a beautiful book by Noah
Harari that talks about you know the
sort of the origin of homo
sapien and you know we were alone and
then we have tribes and then we build
cities and then we become built
countries and the continents Etc and one
of the very basic ingredients was Trust
the reason why money is so important and
I wasn't sarcastic or cynical when I
said that money Integrity is more
important than human Integrity or used
to be more important than human
Integrity because basically money means
nothing it's just we trust the
government we trust somebody that
printed this piece of paper that if we
will show this piece of paper to
somebody will get the certain amount of
gold that is in this piece of paper and
let's forget about the fact that there
is no gold behind it anymore of course
but without the
trust that this piece of something means
something tangible for us right we have
a big problem and now when we starting
to lose trust in the communication we're
getting we try to uh lose we starting to
lose uh trust in the leaders we are
seeing uh it's something that I think is
really
destabilizing and with all the
advancement of virtual Technologies
whether it's Vision Pro by Apple
Orest Oculus by
Facebook we already stting starting to
see a situation where we have um um
video conferences with people who are
literally virtual and of course we all
familiar with the current sort of world
of criminal activities when a banker was
meeting with uh coo and CFO Etc and it
all was deep fakes
and the quality of communication wasn't
good enough but it was like like normal
Zoom communication and they told him
what to do and of course they
transferred the money because he did
what you need to do as a banker he did
visual identic authentication of a
person he did he trusts the other person
who's talking to him right exactly
exactly now you have processes and
procedures and it says look you need to
authenticate a person you need to do
audio audio authentication and even
better if it's a lot transaction you
need to do visual authentication of a
person and that's what he did eventually
it was a deep fake and this is without
like apple Vision Pro now when we create
avatars that look like us and we more
and more prone to those video
conferences and at certain point of time
I ask few of my friends that are in
gaming companies do you believe that
kids that grow now will see the world of
virtual reality as their own world and
they said definitely it's already
happening yeah then ability to influence
their behavior ability to ruin the trust
or abuse the trust uh becomes um even
more important absolutely
so if you ask me there are many
threats and I think that one of the ways
to make sure that the AI brings us the
opportunities we
want uh is to make sure that we build
those digital guards and we can talk
about it more that will allow us to sort
of protect about ourselves as a society
against the wrong behavior
of bad people using AI by the way like I
know that you have a dog yeah I have a
dog dogs are never bad right yeah they
can be trained to be bad AI is never bad
it can be trained to be bad M but who is
really bad people behind AI that train
AI to be bad I mean it's there's a lot
of systems today that use that use um
Biometrics right we've I think we've
spent probably the last 20 years trying
to move into a world of frictionless
consumer experience whether it's to open
a bank account or to talk to each other
on the phone and treat in Biometrics as
a source of trust signal for verifying
the identity of the person you're
talking to and this is true for if I see
a video of of U of Joe Biden on
television so it's I don't even need
them to write that it's Joe Biden I see
it and I trust it and I trust that that
this is an authentic version of them
similarly in video conferences and
banking systems and legal evidence in
court do you think that we're going that
if you're looking from a security
perspective now that this is being
breached right so we can no longer trust
these identities that we're saying do
you think that that different security
organizations will sort of retract from
from taking Biometrics as as an approach
or or do you think they will build
additional guard rails or they will have
new creative things that we don't even
know about oh I totally think that
biomedics as we know it will not will be
less and less effective we'll need tools
like H Clarity to make sure that we can
trust we need the trust trust without
the trust the society will not Sur
fundamental it's a fundamental and by
the way look let's look at money you
know we spoke about the money so I don't
know if you remember but initially
people use biometric tests to check the
authenticity of money H which and the
best biometric process was It was
supposed to be gold they will try to
bite it that's what happened in the med
medieval times right MH and obviously
with the development of metals and you
know and the um Genesis of printed money
or paper money this idea of let's try to
bite it which I would say a version of
Biometrics didn't really work and then
we need something that we call
certification Authority so there is like
a picture of a
king and then it will be watermarks and
then it will be very expensive
authentication mechanisms that will
sorry a very
expensive
um sort of authenticity authentic ation
mechanisms that will show us that the
money is authentic it's real and it will
be very difficult to uh forfeit and then
of course people created H new ways to
Forfeit it and you know I think the
biggest move when the dollar has been
changed it's not the same old green
dollar that it used to be just because
it it became so easy ER to Forfeit and I
think
that then we move to internet and then
initially it was very difficult to
authenticate websites how do you know
that you're buying from from Amazon or
not and then the idea of certificate
Authority came again and then company
that called RSA was established by you
know algorithms developed by river
Shamir and Adelman and then you could
literally authenticate sign certificate
website and today you go if somebody
wants to see you have this certificate
certificate for each and every website
you know you will see this symbol of
and people will call it https versus
HTTP but the same idea happened and I
think that now when we com to a new
level ER of ability to H fake identities
we still uh are human beings and I think
those proven practices of certificate
Authority are still needed H so
obviously there will be a a strong need
for companies that can authenticate and
tell you what is real and what is not
and people cannot trust what they see
they cannot trust what they
hear ER so they will
have to trust small number of
entities ER that will then in turn to
authenticate uh other entities and we
all see it when we we travel with our
passports or IDs we can't really trust
all the passports that we see but we
can't trust you know the government I
hope
that will give the right passports to
the right people and then if we can
authenticate the passport then with high
probability we know that that person is
that person and I think that's what will
happen uh and already happening in the
world of AI and identities and the
virtual uh human beings and uh non
virtual human beings you know one of the
questions that I that I that I think to
I mean there's there's different ways to
protect Banks from from Deep fakes
there's different ways to protect video
cont conferencing from Deep fix even
social media and I'm and I'm looking at
the user I'm looking at my niece I'm
looking at my grandmother who are going
to be sitting and they're going to be
experiencing this communication so not
the Enterprise right the banker yeah I
can train the banker to to have a
certain mechanisms with and and Trust
more data than trust his own census but
now I'm thinking about n billion people
and I'm looking at the large
transformation that's happening and it's
not a 10y year 20e transformation it's
not like moving to the cloud right it's
it's not like the rise of social media
which did take a little bit of time
we're talking about now this
proliferation of synthetic media which
it what it feels like and what the data
shows us is that over a very very short
amount of time we're going to have to
retrain the way we look at media online
in the news and our phone and video
calls and this is not just for the
banker but this is for every person in
the world because we put so much trust
in our senses and what we see in here
and all of a sudden we're we're going to
have to remember and train ourselves to
to be skeptic about our
senses and and and I'm really curious
because you you you you you're you're
very in tune with with being and and and
what it means to be human and and I'm
curious to what what do you think how
you think people will manage that well
will there be Mass
skepticism um will they will will people
be able to trust or constantly look at
sort of the the certificate will be
attached to the media will they care
that there will be a certificate
attached to the
media
so you know I think that the good news
about human beings that we we will
overcome it and we can talk a little bit
more in like in the future about the
waves of threats and what happened with
them but just to answer your
question we as human beings
develop capabilities to cope with thing
that can um be a threat to our lives uh
I'm a person I'm a half cup uh half
glass full person so I believe that
people will create abilities to uh to do
it to be skeptical I don't think by the
way that it will be a responsibility of
the 9 billion people to authenticate and
identify and detect deep fakes um we all
familiar now that if somebody you'll do
it exactly no but this is a very
important point it's like I think it's a
it's really a fundamental point about us
being human beings it's a human right
exactly to know what reality is exactly
and and people today if you will call
somebody and tell him look ER your
credit card is stolen please give you
your give give me your PIN 99% of the
people will understand that it's a scam
it
wasn't it wasn't that way in the past H
when people will ask for your social
security number you will know that
you're not supposed to give it or most
of people will know that you're not
supposed to give it if you will get an
email saying that you know they're very
happy to tell you that you inherited $20
million and you just need to provide
some information to get this money most
of the people will know that it's
probably a scam so there was definitely
an an education part of it the good news
for us 9 billion people is that
companies like Clarity and Banks and
financial institutions and consumer
companies like Amazon Etc it will be
their responsibility to help us to
identify uh fakes and by the way if they
will fail people won't use them exactly
exactly Mar exactly exactly so it's a
really
survival for them to make sure that they
use the right technology to keep serving
ER those uh people this is an evolution
companies that will not be able to H ER
provide their customers the trust they
need will just not survive that's why I
think it's very good news for companies
the clarity of course it's also very
good news for the 9 billion people that
are using systems at the end of the day
market dynamics uh will win and
companies that will be able to keep uh
the trust of their consumers will be uh
will surv not only Will Survive but we
Thrive and companies that will lose the
trust will not be with us anymore and I
think that you know the more and more I
spend time on this problem it almost
feels like this tectonic shift that
you're experience that you're explaining
and there's there's many tectonic shifts
happening you know there's AI in
healthcare there's AI in in different
infrastructure for analytics and in in
many different capacities but when you
look at trust and the way that AI
impacts trust it almost feels like the
tectonic shift is that we're introducing
this new expectation that until now was
um was not intuitive but it was almost
like just a a part of our senses and our
our frontal cortex being able to to
generate trust with our own um with our
own thinking process and now that is
being hijacked and so practically every
organization and every group that comes
in contact with a person an identity and
transm and transmits
information now you need this new layer
of trust around it which is a really
really really big pillar it's much
bigger than than you know specific
Technologies being able to detect deep
fakes or put watermarks or Providence we
really are looking at a new human
computer interaction here right
absolutely absolutely and
um and you know unfortunately like in
many of those cases it will be a bit
worse before it will be much better uh
because the systems are not there uh and
luckily you do what you do at Clarity so
you prepare it for the future but we
will go through a phase where trust will
be
eroded uh the Deep fakes it's not good
news for the 2024 elections it's not we
will not yeah you know you need to raise
like $100 million immediately and to
increase the pace of development but
you're absolutely right it's not a good
news for the coming elections I hope
that
um the Deep fake will not really affect
the elections because the trust of the
people will be eroded which is in short
term is a good thing so at least they
will not believe everything they see
obviously it should become better
because people won't trust people need
something they can trust so we actually
so maybe so maybe we need to expedite
deep fakes on the world so that we erode
trust before the election so that they
don't believe what they see when it
happens because the worst thing is that
they'll believe the Deep fakes that come
absolutely right and and by the way in a
much smaller scale let's look at money
laundering which is you know the world
that ER I'm sort of
helping it started with the fact that
people will on wearing money and just
you know um and uh just abusing the
system
um El Capon was printing you know fake
money you know the term money Laing came
for the fact that they were creating
fake money and then they literally need
to launder it so it will look used okay
so this was the way to create fake money
this was likeing machines yeah
absolutely that's why they say to
launder money money laundering they were
putting it in the laundry machines
without the shampoo yeah without the
cleaner but just making it been yeah
this was the origin of deep fake you
know it's not the bad I didn't invent de
deep fake this was deep fake and
existing and that the systems that
existed that time which was basically
tellers couldn't identify it because the
money didn't look new it was like it
looked used that's how it's all started
amazing yeah and then of course H you
know ER Banks understood it it's
dangerous for them Regulators stepped in
as well because sometimes Bank were a
little bit more greedy and actually
enjoy the fact that there is situation
of lack of trust but they uh wanted to
support some of their customers and then
um and then of course existing systems
like Swift Etc became not effective and
then AI stepped in and then companies
like the started to grow and became very
successful and I think that's exactly
what's happening right now of course in
a much larger scale so initially those
bad guys will be able to fool some of
the people and then companies like H
Clarity will develop tools to detect it
it in parallel and I think it's
extremely important and as you know I'm
extremely I'm very active in the
legislation part we need very strong
regulation um that will also punish
severely deep fakes uh
creators ER that will control the use uh
of
AI and of course like in any um um
technology some bad people will put that
hands and we try to bypass the
regulation but the legislation is
extremely important what leads you to
believe that that will be effective so
using regulation to deter Bad Bad actors
using technology I understand you know
deterring Bad actors from doing physical
harm taking a gun and going on a
shooting spree that it's you know the
the deterrent is that you're going to
get caught physically but behind
technology nobody knows you're a dog
right how why do you think that that
that I guess regulation here will be
effective so it's a very good question
and I think that first regulation can be
effective and there is one ingredient
that is needed which is that everybody
will understand that it's for better er
er it's for everybody's uh um good um
think about it the nuclear proliferation
is working yes you need cooperation of
many countries but today if you will try
to create nuclear weapons you will would
have a problem money laundering it's not
perfect it doesn't work everywhere but
it does work it does work because people
understand that ER countries should work
with each other yeah otherwise it will
ruin the financial systems by the way
what happened is that it started by as a
regulation but now even financial
institutions understand that it's
important one of the examples I can
bring from T is uh hundreds if not
thousands of girls that unfortunately
were sold from Ukraine uh
um by bed guys and by the way thanks to
the use of AI by bed guys there was an
SPV a special
vehicle special purpose special purp
purp vehicle company that was
established for each and every girl so
it was so girls being sold through girls
being sold there were companies that
were established each company was
something like child relief program Etc
it's almost impossible to detect a tet
AI solution did detect it and it's a
famous story you know Bank sees the
those transactions stop them report as
they should using S suspicious activity
report and then few weeks later Interpol
came and said look you should stop those
transactions because it's money
laundering it's child trafficking and
the bank said look good news that we
actually didn't transfer the money now
obviously uh money wasn't transferred so
girls were not shipped and basically we
sa the we saved those girls so it's a
very good example where regulation
started something that now is actually
became bonon became standard de facto no
CEO of the bank will now support or
fintech will now support bypassing
sanctions or bypassing money laundering
regulations because in some cases it can
be a great customer that just want to
launder some money that they did by tax
evasion but in many cases it can be
terorist funding which is extremely
illegal it can be human trafficking
which nobody wants to do it can be ER
narcot trafficking so I think that the
same situation we human beings know how
to create uh genetic ER cloning I think
it's a similar one again we know that
some countries don't follow the rules
Etc but I think that you need two
ingredients one is the willingness by
the governments to create the right type
of legislation and of the Nations and
companies and people to cooperate with
each other and the second one is
detection Technologies right H and I
think that and the implementation of
detection Technologies at scale exactly
and implementation at scale and that's
why it's important to have companies
like Clarity and it's important to have
conversations like we have now with the
European Union and the US president act
for AI and you know and others I think
the the big um challenge opportunity
that's presented to us in in in when it
comes to regulation is that um the it's
it's getting harder and harder to know
the source so even if you can detect the
occurrence because of the decentralized
nature of of the digital world and
because of the sheer volume of things
happening it's very hard to trace back
to the source I imagine that in money
laundering a lot of times you can
probably look back at you you at least
know which account it came from and then
try to to have some signals there but
you know I'm thinking through you know
people that are disseminating these you
know these bot farms and people that are
you know are going to create deep fakes
out into the world um you know the
ability to trace back to really where it
came from um is going to be really
really challenging and I'm and I'm
especially curious about about how to
crack the ability to take regulation and
legislation to
empower these really the pipes of
information to put the detection
mechanisms there so that you can get as
close to the source as possible right
because once the media has gone through
several instances it's it's kind of out
in the wild um but but it's as close as
you can get to even you know the router
of the of the Wi-Fi um and and I think
that it's it's really interesting that
we as a society will start thinking of
things we do in the digital Spectrum
similar to violence in the physical
world right right it's it's very clear
that when somebody holds a gun in the
street you know there's a threat there
it's you don't think that of somebody
who has a laptop yet but but we're I
think we're getting there oh absolutely
and uh you know you mentioned violence
uh I would claim that um taking a
teenage girl and you know doing deep
fake uh with the that you know um sort
of um um
a deep fake with the you know presenting
this teenage girl in a way that is not
respectful I would claim that in many
cases on social media it can be uh much
more painful than you know just a
physical bullying so I think we're
already there and uh we haven't even
started uh being in the virtual world
when we believe that this is an
extension of our world um so kuras for
uh making world a better place even for
those you know teenage girls and boys
that can be uh you know embarrassed and
shamed and bullied by using
um deep fake and again here I think we
um see how important is this combination
of good Technologies great companies
like yourself ER and the right type of
legislation right you know it's an
ecosystem play sorry it's an ecosystem
it's an ecosystem absolutely you know
there will be more uh and more
requirements for the right type of of
authentication and authorization so
today if you can easily onboard yourself
people will have more strict
requirements to onb board themselves um
the transparency will have to be much
more important and today there are a lot
of uh discussions about making the AI
transparent traceable and explainable uh
people will be not uh you know people
will not tolerate ER
AI not being able to explain its own
decision
um I strongly believe and uh if people
will Google my name they will see that
one of the first hackers that has been
caught his name is analyzer I was
um I was a key witness and I remember
when we had this conversation with
FBI the notion was that it's impossible
to find somebody in this world where
there are IP addresses and uh
uh how can you detect this guy and today
everybody understands that that wasn't
the situation when you have an IP you
can always find uh in the logs of the
routers when uh who got this IP address
and which phone call made a connection
that time they were like modems etc etc
and then you can trace it back and find
what's going on then cryptocurrency
everybody said yeah and you know now
using cryptocurrency and mixers Etc you
can I can't find who's this money Etc
and again now there are enough tools to
see and get to the origin of
that wallet and even if you can't find
where it is you can put enough uh uh
triggers and buffers and uh um and
thresholds so if somebody will use this
uh wallet and they will have to use the
virtual love wallet to get real money or
create a transaction you will catch it
so I'm optimistic I think that there is
no such thing as Perfect Crime
there is no such thing as total ER an
like
1% Anonymous with the amount of data
that is today I think it's just a
question of time the systems will be
developed and uh you know as they say
these bad guys will be able ER to run
but they cannot hide for like
forever um Mark before we uh we end this
amazing conversation
um what are one or two key pieces of
advice that you would give me okay so
before doing it let me just say
something extremely important about Ai
and then I will give you two one or two
P pieces of advice I wasn't ready by the
way you didn't tell me that you will ask
me so I didn't prepare anything but I
think it will be the most authentic one
but first of all let me tell you one
thing that just to summarize the the AI
piece because many people come to me and
say look Mark you in this world of AI
don't you think that you like ruin the
world you create something that will
ruin us as a humanity and it's a very
big question and I thought about it and
I found that every time something new
was created something like radical was
created that changed the
world people had a lot of fears when pre
press was created everybody was sure
that that's the end of humanity because
we don't need to use our brains anymore
we don't need to remember all those
stories so there will be no people
anymore because everything on knowledge
anymore because everything is printed
when telephone was created that's the
origin let's call it the origin of
telecommunication people said that's it
it's the end of the social life it's the
end of us human beings being social
animals because we can just make a phone
call so why should we visit each other
you know when car was created haish said
you know it will totally ruin the family
unit because suddenly you can go to a
remote City and you know heish will not
allow the use of cars at least they it
didn't end when I build the first
internet service provider here everybody
told me look you know the way your kids
will speak with you will be totally
different so we create in a world we
will not understand our kids and by the
way everybody was right my kids
definitely use language that I'm not
sure that I understand but I also found
that every new development although it
did create problems it creates huge
opportunities and I think that to
summarize what we said about uh deep
fake and bad guys and uh uh why there's
such a big need need for companies like
Clarity is AI is similar but it's also
different because AI can be easily used
by bed guys as well and they already
using it they already doing it they
don't follow any
rules
um they use it to create deep FS they
use it to steal money they use it to
sell those poor girls that we mentioned
so in the world of AI
we have to develop AI we have to use AI
to create digital guards and because we
need to train AI we can actually and
it's Our obligation as a Humanity to
take you AI to train it to become our
digital guards and together this men
machine Corporation or AI ER artificial
intelligence and hi human intelligence
Corporation is the only way for us to
fight the bad guys um my experience
shows that good guys always win maybe
it's because there are more of us and
now you ask for one or two advises to
give
you H first really I I learn I learn to
know you to spend time with you just
keep being who you are being optimistic
Unstoppable
[Music]
ER I think what's really love about you
you dare to make mistakes and uh you are
smart enough or wise enough to ask
advises how to avoid those mistakes you
know somebody told me that stupid people
don't learn from their own mistakes
smart people learn from their own
mistakes but really wise people learn
from mistakes of others so keep
utilizing your ability to listen to
people and uh learn from them to make a
world much much better place and keep
creating people around you are leaders
like you and create ever expanding
results you're a true leader thank you
thank you Mark I I appreciate it and and
I take with that um the the nature of
optimism and the nature of listening and
trying to understand cover what is you
know continuously uncover what is known
and un especially uncover what is
unknown um and uh and I think that what
what strikes me throughout every
interaction we have and especially in
this conversation it's it's always
looking at the glass half full it's I
think it's the same sentiment of taking
threats and turning them into
opportunities and and seeing
opportunities in them it's seeing the
the disruptions that are happening but
saying it's getting better and and we
will overcome it not because we're
navely optimistic but because we've done
it before and and we have great people
doing it today and and even though
you've you've built multiple extremely
successful companies you're still so
active in what you do and so and and
that inspires me you know seeing people
that are so energized by by by pure you
know wanting to to to make both the
world a better place but also just the
people around you better and what you
mentioned before about what you that
your leadership style and one of the
things that you truly care about is is
seeing others around you become better
leaders themselves and that gives you
even bigger pleasure than than
succeeding on the task yourself I think
that that really it does speak to to the
same nature of optimism and how and and
how you're tackling these larger
problems so mark thank you so much for
spending this time with me thank you
thank you very much for having
thank you much